.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\" based on work by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" and Mike Battersby <mike@starbug.apana.org.au>.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Revisado por Miguel Pérez Ibars <mpi79470@alu.um.es> el 1-diciembre-2004
.\"
.TH SIGNAL 2 "28 abril 2000" "Linux 2.2" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
signal \- manejo de señales en ANSI C
.SH SINOPSIS
.B #include <signal.h>
.sp
.B typedef void (*sighandler_t)(int);
.sp
.BI "sighandler_t signal(int " signum ", sighandler_t " handler );
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
La llamada al sistema
.BR signal ()
instala un nuevo manejador de señales para la señal con número
.IR signum .
El manejador de señales queda establecido a
.I sighandler
que puede ser una función especificada por el usuario o bien
.B SIG_IGN
o
.BR SIG_DFL .

Cuando llega una señal con número
.I signum
ocurre lo siguiente.
Si el manejador correspondiente está establecido a
.BR SIG_IGN ,
la señal es ignorada.
Si el manejador está establecido a
.BR SIG_DFL ,
se realiza la acción por defecto asociada a la señal (vea
.BR signal (7)).
Finalmente, si el manejador está establecido a una función
.I sighandler
lo primero que se hace es o bien restablecer el manejador
a SIG_DFL o un bloqueo de la señal que depende de la implementación,
invocando después a
.I sighandler
con el argumento
.IR signum .

Usar una función manejadora de señales para una señal
se llama "atrapar la señal".
Las señales
